---
layout: post
title: Nicknames
date: 2015-01-03
category: thoughts,personal,fun 
---
#Nicknames

So in this blog post I will be writing about *nicknames*. If you think that I will tell you my *nicknames* then you are absolutely correct :P. Hope you enjoy reading :).

##What is a nickname?

A nickname is "a name added to or substituted for the proper name of a person, place, etc., as in affection, ridicule, or familiarity."

##Why people give nicknames? 

Nicknames have been around as long as people have been talking. !

According to a study by Bellevue University, Nebraska, men give nicknames as a way of being affectionate without compromising masculinity.

“It’s a man’s interpretation of what being friendly is like,” says Prof Cleveland Kent Evans.
A nickname can say a lot about a person


##What do nicknames say about us? 

*It's about the relationship*<br/>
We never give nicknames to people we don't have any relationship with. So no nicknames for the people we hardly know. But when we like someone, we may use a nickname to show acceptance.<br/>We also use nicknames  to indicate dislike.<br/>In contrast to affective nicknames, teasing nicknames are mostly used by people and they can stick for years like my college buddies call me **hacker** and it's been more than 2 years.

##My *nicknames*

<ol>
<li>hacker</li>
<li>teddy bear</li>
<li>mittu</li>
<li>nikku</li>
<li>chitrkar</li>
<li>nicks</li>
<li>mittu</li>
<li>Ni</li>
<li>n-ittalane</li>
<li>TEN-POINTER</li> 
</ol>

Well, there are many others too :P. I may tell you later.Don't Worry.<br/> 
Now let's give you a brief description about some *nicknames*.<br/>
My favourite one is **n-ittalane** given by [Aman](https://www.facebook.com/arora16aman), when I asked him to explain, this is what he replied. 
{% highlight ruby %}
This is your iupac from today
N because u many
Lol
Ittal thats ur name
And ane lagana zaroori
Lol
{% endhighlight %}
Dude, he is very creative, a full package of entertainment and you will believe me when you talk to him.<br/>
Next *nickname* is **hacker** this was given by [Aditya](https://www.facebook.com/adik007?fref=ts) because I attended a hacking workshop and he likes to tease me by saying so. Similar to this is **TEN-POINTER** just because i got a 10.0 CGPA in a semester :P.LOL! Yes, Laughing out loud.<br/>My school friends call me **Ni** which is the symbol of [Nickel](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nickel).According to them my name *Nikhil Mittal* rhymes with *Nickel Metal*.So they call me **Nickel** or **Ni**,I like this one :).<br/> My coaching buddies used to call me **teddy bear** because according to them my belly is as soft as teddy bear(toy).The last one about which i am gonna tell you is **chitrkar** given by my college teacher because me and my friend were caught using camera (flash ON) in the class, and now whenever he meets us he calls me by this name only.<br/><br/>
Well, I noticed something many people just copy nicknames i.e. they use the *nickname* given to you by anyone else. While only a few people are creative enough to give you a new *nickname*.
<br/><br/>
This is my first blog post of the year. Happy new year, btw :).
