---
layout: post
title: IsPrime()
date: 2015-06-27
category: python,coding,maths,experience
---

Hey! Long time no see. Let's start. 

So I was just googling random stuff regarding Maths(I love it.) about triangle and circles. You might be wondering what am I doing ?

Go on read...

Actually I was in metro coming back home, there was this 10th class chubby boy trying to solve a problem based on property of similar triangles and circles. So what?  Any guess...
I helped him solve that question , the boy was happy and left by saying `I never thought strangers can help` I replied `well some do :)`.*Feels good*

Anyways where were we?  Um googling maths, so I came across those project euler problems. They are very popular, I remember people solving them when we were in first year, Though I never tried. So why not now? *for fun :P* 

There was this [problem](https://www.hackerrank.com/contests/projecteuler/challenges/euler007) no. [7](https://projecteuler.net/problem=7)
For this I had to test whether the passed no. Is a prime or not? 
Here's what I wrote first

```
def isPrime(num):
    if num == 2:
        return True
    for n in range(3, int(num ** 0.5) + 2, 1):
        if num % n == 0:
            return False
    return True
```

It was very slow for large no.s. But I found out that using `range()` not a good choice, because it will create a list of numbers, which uses a lot of memory. 

Then I used `xrange()`,here is the code:

```
def isPrime(num):
    if num == 2:
        return True
    if num < 2 or num % 2 == 0:
        return False
    for n in xrange(3, int(num ** 0.5) + 2, 2):
        if num % n == 0:
            return False
    return True
```
Though it was faster than earlier one but this solution also gave an error `termination due to time out`.
Why? I thought `xrange()` was the best choice since it creates a `generator` which doesn't require any memory, but the problem is it raises an `OverflowError` for very large no.s like `2^31`.

Then I came across 2 functions of `itertools` : `count()` and `islice()`

```
def isPrime(n):
    if n < 2: return False
    return all(n%i for i in islice(count(3,2), int(sqrt(n)-1)//2))
```

This was faster but I needed to optimise more, thought of a silly thing ,but the results *surprised* me

```
def isPrime(n):
    if n < 2: return False
    for i in islice(count(3,2), int(sqrt(n)-1)//2):
        if n%i ==0:
            return False
    return True
```

You would not believe me but the `if-else` check was faster than `all()` and solution got accepted for all the testcases :D.
This code could find large primes in only few seconds.

It was fun doing this. Wrote a post after a long time! [Goodbye](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ho9xM9n2USA)!